add word delimiter graph token filter docs #8454 (#8468)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _analyzers/token-filters/word-delimiter-graph.md

`catenate_all` | Optional | Boolean | Produces concatenated tokens from a sequence of alphanumeric parts. For example, `"quick-fast-200"` becomes `[ quickfast200, quick, fast, 200 ]`. Default is `false`.
`catenate_numbers` | Optional | Boolean | Concatenates numerical sequences. For example, `"10-20-30"` becomes `[ 102030, 10, 20, 30 ]`. Default is `false`.
`catenate_words` | Optional | Boolean | Concatenates alphabetic words. For example, `"high-speed-level"` becomes `[ highspeedlevel, high, speed, level ]`. Default is `false`. 
`generate_number_parts` | Optional | Boolean | If `true`, numeric tokens (tokens consisting of numbers only) are included in the output. Default is `true`.
`generate_word_parts` | Optional | Boolean | If `true`, alphabetical tokens (tokens consisting of alphabetic characters only) are included in the output. Default is `true`.

> `ignore_keywords` | Optional | Boolean | Whether to process tokens marked as keywords. Default is `false`.

Reviewer: I think "after" is more descriptive because you would list that filter after the other one.

`preserve_original` | Optional | Boolean | Keeps the original token (that may include non-alphanumeric delimeters) alongside the generated tokens in the output. For example, `"auto-drive-300"` becomes `[ auto-drive-300, auto, drive, 300 ]`. If `true`, the filter generates multi-position tokens not supported by indexing, so do not use this filter in an index analyzer or use the `flatten_graph` filter after this filter. Default is `false`. 

> `protected_words` | Optional | Array of strings | Specifies the tokens that should not be split.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`protected_words` | Optional | Array of strings | Specifies tokens that should not be split.
```

> `protected_words_path` | Optional | String | Specifies a path (absolute or relative to the config directory) to a file containing tokens that should not be split separated by new lines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`protected_words_path` | Optional | String | Specifies a path (absolute or relative to the config directory) to a file containing tokens that should not be separated by new lines.
```

> `split_on_case_change` | Optional | Boolean | Splits tokens at the place where consecutive letters have a different case (one is lowercase the other is uppercase). For example, `"OpenSearch"` becomes `[ Open, Search ]`. Default is `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`split_on_case_change` | Optional | Boolean | Splits tokens where consecutive letters have different cases (one is lowercase and the other is uppercase). For example, `"OpenSearch"` becomes `[ Open, Search ]`. Default is `true`.
```

> `split_on_numerics` | Optional | Boolean | Splits tokens at the place where there are a consecutive letter and number. For example `"v8engine"` will become `[ v, 8, engine ]`. Default is `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`split_on_numerics` | Optional | Boolean | Splits tokens where there are consecutive letters and numbers. For example `"v8engine"` will become `[ v, 8, engine ]`. Default is `true`.
```

> `stem_english_possessive` | Optional | Boolean | Removes English possessive endings such as `'s`. Default is `true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`stem_english_possessive` | Optional | Boolean | Removes English possessive endings, such as `'s`. Default is `true`.
```

> `type_table` | Optional | Array of strings | A custom map that specifies how to treat characters and whether to treat them as delimiters, which avoids unwanted splitting. For example, to treat a hyphen (`-`) as an alphanumeric character, specify `["- => ALPHA"]` so words are not split on hyphens. Valid types are: <br> - `ALPHA`: alphabetical <br> - `ALPHANUM`: alphanumeric <br> - `DIGIT`: numeric <br> - `LOWER`: lowercase alphabetical <br> - `SUBWORD_DELIM`: non-alphanumeric delimiter <br> - `UPPER`: uppercase alphabetical

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`type_table` | Optional | Array of strings | A custom map that specifies how to treat characters and whether to treat them as delimiters, which avoids unwanted splitting. For example, to treat a hyphen (`-`) as an alphanumeric character, specify `["- => ALPHA"]` so that words are not split at hyphens. Valid types are: <br> - `ALPHA`: alphabetical <br> - `ALPHANUM`: alphanumeric <br> - `DIGIT`: numeric <br> - `LOWER`: lowercase alphabetical <br> - `SUBWORD_DELIM`: non-alphanumeric delimiter <br> - `UPPER`: uppercase alphabetical
```

`type_table_path` | Optional | String | Specifies a path (absolute or relative to the config directory) to a file containing a custom character map. The map specifies how to treat characters and whether to treat them as delimiters, which avoids unwanted splitting. For valid types, see `type_table`.

## Example

> The following example request creates a new index named `my-custom-index` and configures an analyzer with `word_delimiter_graph` filter:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example request creates a new index named `my-custom-index` and configures an analyzer with a `word_delimiter_graph` filter:
```

          "filter": [ "custom_word_delimiter_filter" ]
        }
      },
      "filter": {
        "custom_word_delimiter_filter": {
          "type": "word_delimiter_graph",
          "split_on_case_change": true,
          "split_on_numerics": true,
          "stem_english_possessive": true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Generated tokens

Use the following request to examine the tokens generated using the analyzer:

```json
GET /my-custom-index/_analyze
{
  "analyzer": "custom_analyzer",
  "text": "FastCar's Model2023"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The response contains the generated tokens:

```json
{
  "tokens": [
    {
      "token": "Fast",
      "start_offset": 0,
      "end_offset": 4,
      "type": "word",
      "position": 0
    },
    {
      "token": "Car",
      "start_offset": 4,
      "end_offset": 7,
      "type": "word",
      "position": 1
    },
    {
      "token": "Model",
      "start_offset": 10,
      "end_offset": 15,
      "type": "word",
      "position": 2
    },
    {
      "token": "2023",
      "start_offset": 15,
      "end_offset": 19,
      "type": "word",
      "position": 3
    }
  ]
}   
```

> <!-- vale off-->

Reviewer 2: Line 130: We do not use underscores in the title or in the heading on line 8.

Reviewer: I would use code font, but it looks odd in headings. I think keeping underscores helps see the difference between the two.

> ## Differences between word_delimiter_graph and word_delimiter filters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Differences between the word_delimiter_graph and word_delimiter filters
```

<!-- vale on-->

Both the `word_delimiter_graph` and `word_delimiter` token filters generate tokens spanning multiple positions when any of the following parameters are set to `true`:

- `catenate_all`  
- `catenate_numbers`  
- `catenate_words`  
- `preserve_original`  

> To illustrate the filter differences, consider the input text `Pro-XT500`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To illustrate the differences between these filters, consider the input text `Pro-XT500`.
```

<!-- vale off-->

> ### word_delimiter_graph

Reviewer 2: Same comment re: underscores

<!-- vale on-->

The `word_delimiter_graph` filter assigns a `positionLength` attribute to multi-position tokens, indicating how many positions a token spans. This ensures that the filter always generates valid token graphs, making it suitable for use in advanced token graph scenarios. Although token graphs with multi-position tokens are not supported for indexing, they can still be useful in search scenarios. For example, queries like `match_phrase` can use these graphs to generate multiple subqueries from a single input string. For the example input text, the `word_delimiter_graph` filter generates the following tokens:

- `Pro` (position 1)  
- `XT500` (position 2)  
- `ProXT500` (position 1, `positionLength`: 2)

> The `positionLength` attribute ensures a valid graph for advanced queries.

Reviewer 2: "ensures the production of a valid graph to be used in advanced queries"?

<!-- vale off-->

> ### word_delimiter

Reviewer 2: Same comment re: underscores

<!-- vale on-->

In contrast, the `word_delimiter` filter does not assign a `positionLength` attribute to multi-position tokens, leading to invalid graphs when these tokens are present. For the example input text, the `word_delimiter` filter generates the following tokens:

- `Pro` (position 1)  
- `XT500` (position 2)  
- `ProXT500` (position 1, no `positionLength`)

> The lack of a `positionLength` attribute means the resulting token graph is invalid for token streams containing multi-position tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The lack of a `positionLength` attribute results in a token graph that is invalid for token streams containing multi-position tokens.
```
